# Application

### Name
CrowdControl \
https://crowdcontrol.network \
https://github.com/DecentralCardGame

### Project name (if applicable)
Cosmos C# integration + Unity

### Email of main point of contact
patrick.wieth@googlemail.com

### Individual/team members (GitHub handles, Twitter, websites….)
https://github.com/patrickwieth \
https://github.com/lxgr-linux \
The CrowdControl Team is bigger, but these 2 individuals understand Cosmos-SDK and will work on this. \

### Your chosen Area of focus for the grant (see ReadMe)
Game development infastructure

### A short description of what you are proposing (applies to all submissions)

We think games are a huge opportunity for blockchains to attract new users. This is the main reason why other blockchain ecosystems like Ethereum or Solana provide tools and integrations so that games can connect to the blockchain. See https://docs.metamask.io/wallet/how-to/use-sdk/gaming/unity/ and https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/decentralization/infrastructure/solana-sdk-for-unity-246931. 
For Cosmos this is different, neither do these integrations exist nor a wallet for Unity/C#. For a gaming project this is a showstopper or to be more precise it is a showstopper for the decision to enter the Cosmos ecosystem.

We have spoken to many Cosmos gaming projects and were looking for a solution to this and nobody had any at hand and did not know about any solution. We have opened a Forum thread (https://forum.cosmos.network/t/gaming-in-cosmos/12103) and did not get a response. Furthermore I have spoken to Zaki Manian and Sam from Cosmos hub developer relations, all of those queries have not shown anybody working on a solution that we are presenting here. We also came into contact with SAGA, but no integrations for Unity or just plain C# were available there, also the original Cosmos vision is not represented by SAGA. We are convinced Jae Kwons vision of app-specific blockchains is great, but unfortunately the Cosmos Ecosystem seems to have given up on that. We hope that AtomOne can bring back this great vision.
Our impression is that game development is a lost cause in the Cosmos Ecosystem, which provides a big opportunity to AtomOne to take this place. 

Gaming is a special niche, where small indie projects can bring an unexpected amount of users, which we should not miss out on. Telling those projects that a Wallet for Unity/C# does not exist is a big showstopper for them. As a side note this is not only necessary for the biggest gaming platforms (Unity, Godot) but any software project that is built with .NET (Azure Cloud, ASP.NET, Xamarin) needs this.

**We want to make it possible for software projects that are built with C# to interact with Cosmos blockchains (transactions, wallet). This first step then enables games built with Unity to directly integrate into Cosmos blockchains (transactions, wallet).**

We have spoken to many gaming projects in the Cosmos ecosystem and all of them have either given up on Cosmos and left the ecosystem or have decided to just interact via a browser, since wallet and interface is only available for Javascript (cosmJS). Unity is the most common framework for building games and C\# is the most used language. It is therefore obvious support for this platform/language makes most sense.


### Why are you best suited/what is your background and previous projects that you have worked on (or team’s if applicable) (applies to all submissions):
We are using Cosmos SDK for years now and are building a game (https://crowdcontrol.network/) with Cosmos tech stack. We are among the very few projects, which are playable and the game client really interacts with the blockchain. We are the only game in Cosmos that connects to the blockchain with an executable game client (built with Unity). In the past we have even built our own wallet, but this became unnecessary once CosmJS was properly working and even more so, when vue.js autogenerated code became available through Ignite. We are working with CosmJS and Ignite and have contributed to those projects by reporting bugs and discussing fixes for those bugs. What we envision here is a similar solution for Unity, so that you can auto generate your C\# code interface for Unity from the blockchain with scaffolding commands as known from Ignite.

We thought those integrations will be available anyway soon, so postponed this for quite some time, but now we have realized, we must build this on our own. As a result, we have this public repository, which shows that our approach is already working: https://github.com/DecentralCardGame/cosmcs. However this is mostly tailored to our needs with our client and we would be happy to generalize this solution for all kinds of gaming projects and even go further and create a Unity plugin. In addition to that, we have skin in the game, as we are running a validator in Cosmos and are participating in the AtomOne launch to become a validator for AtomOne. The greater good of the Cosmos ecosystem is important to us, but sadly we become more and more skeptical of the Cosmos ecosystem and hope for AtomOne to reverse the current course. Also we have participated in the Hackatom VI category gaming and won the first prize.

###Objectives, milestones, deliverables and overall time frame of your proposal

1. C\# Integration for AtomOne. We have already build this for our needs (https://github.com/DecentralCardGame/cosmcs) but we want to generalize this, so everyone can use it. This enables C\# clients connected to the blockchain.
2. Unity integration via C\# interface. We have already build this for our game, but we want to make it available to a broader audience.
3. Unity plugin for AtomOne or ICS connected chains. This plugin allows game devs to easily connect to ICS blockchains just by adding the plugin, it comes with a wallet and the game devs only have to specify endpoints, chain-id. 
4. Gaming framework for self-developing games. This is our grand vision. Games which are owned by the community and developed by the community. Players can add items, story, maps etc. to the game, they can vote on the balance of the game and steer the direction. Game devs can use the framework to directly transform a game into user centric game / self-developing game.

For point 1 we are speaking of a month of work, this is not really hard to do. It is already working, generalizing it is not a big deal. Point 2 is more work, but can be done in a few months. Point 3 depends a little bit on the scope and it should be discussed with AtomOne core team how this makes the most sense, but it can be done in 6-12 months. Point 4 is a task for years. 

### Disclosure of any conflicts of interest:

None
